# JavaScript Coding Standards

Please ensure you have a recent version of [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) installed as this
is required to run [jshint](http://jshint.com), our linter / coding standards checker
of choice. Simply correcting any warnings generated by jshint will by and large keep your
JavaScript on the right track. The rest of this document outlines general rules and best
practices which should be adhered to.

## JSHint editor plugins

* [NetBeans](http://plugins.netbeans.org/plugin/52226/jshint)
* [Vim](https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic)

(Please add plugins to this list for your editor).

## GDS Recommendtaions

GDS has a few brief recommendations regarding coding standards, inlined below.

### Use soft tabs with a two space indent

This follows the conventions used within our other projects.

### Don't use CoffeeScript

It's an extra abstraction and introduces another language for developers to learn. Using JavaScript gives us guaranteed performance characteristics and more well known support paths.

### Use a `.js-` prefix for JavaScript-only HTML classes

Eg `js-hidden` or `js-tab`. This makes it completely transparent what the class is used for within the HTML.

### Don't apply styles directly inside JavaScript

You should only ever apply CSS classes and style from there. Otherwise you risk clobbering user stylesheets and mixing concerns across different code bases. Also see the previous point.

### Strict mode

Add the `"use strict";` statement to the top of your scripts to enable [strict mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions_and_function_scope/Strict_mode).

### Let the project define the style

As with most parts of software development, it's better to be consistent than perfect. If your
repository already has a style then follow it.

## Airbnb Style Guide

A popular style guide is the [Airbnb JavaScript style guide][airbnb-js] guide on GitHub, which
is also loosely endorsed by GDS. It is fairly exhaustive but where at all possible should be
adhered to as the recommendations are the culmination of years worth of experience resulting
in a familiarity with the quirks of the language (and various browsers) which is unlikely to be
matched by smaller teams or individuals. As such the style guide serves as a useful reference
for developers wishing to familiarise themselves with JavaScript's nuances.

### Style guide exceptions

* declare lists of variables separately, not comma-separated (avoids accidental
global declaration)
* no need for doc-block style method comments
* long-form conditional checks in if statements aren't *always* bad
* don't prefix private members with an underscore - simply refrain from exposing them
